+++
title = "Configuration"
ordering = 3
+++

Almost all configuration values will depend on the site-template that you use.
However there are a few options that are recommended to be used by templates
and some that Statigen supports natively.

## Statigen Site Configuration

The Statigen site configuration will be loaded from `.statigen.toml`.
There are some options for the `[statigen]` table that are supported
natively:

* `statigen.contentDirectory` &ndash; The name of the directory relative
  to the `.statigen.toml` configuration file that contains the content
  files. Default: `.`

* `statigen.buildDirectory` &ndash; The name of the directory where the
  build outputs will be written to. Can be overwritten with the `-b, --build-dir`
  comand-line option. Default: `build`

* `statigen.template` &ndash; The name of the Statigen site-template. Can
  also be the relative path to a Python script. Defaults to `default/docs`.

* `statigen.contentLoader` &ndash; The full Python class name for the
  content-loader. Default: `statigen.MarkdownTomlContentLoader`

* `statigen.contentRenderer` &ndash; The full Python class name for the
  content-loader. Default: `statigen.MarkdownJinjaContentRenderer`

* `statigen.templateRenderer` &ndash; The full Python class name for the
  template renderer. Default: `statigen.JinjaTemplateRenderer`

* `statigen.urlFormat` &ndash; The URL format to use, can be either `file`
  or `directory`. In `directory` mode, clean URLs will be generated but the
  generated site can not be properly used without an HTTP server that tries
  index-files. In `file` mode, URls to other pages will link directly to the
  `.html` file. Default: `file`

* `statigen.contentEncoding` &ndash; A hint to the content loader for the
  encoding that the content files use. Default: `utf8`
  
* `statigen.siteEncoding` &ndash; Write HTML files in this encoding.
  Default: `utf8`

## Content Configuration

The way content is configured depends on the content-loader in place. The
default content-loader allows a TOML section at the top of the file enclosed
by the three characters `+++`.

```
+++
title = "Home"
ordering = 0
+++

Welcome!
```

There are no minimum number of properties that content can provide and the
interpretation of these values is solely up to the site-template. However,
there are a few properties that are commonly used in templates:

* `title` &ndash; The human-readable name of the content/page.

* `ordering` &ndash; In a context where order is important for the content,
  this property is usually used to sort the content in ascending order, falling
  back to the title or content name.

* `renderTitle` &ndash; If the title would be rendered automatically by the
  template, this option can be set to `false` to disable the default title
  rendering.

* `displayPostsFrom` &ndash; Site-templates that represent a blogging format
  should consider this configuration value that will mark a page generated by
  this content as containing blog posts from the specified directory.

* `url` &ndash; Some site-templates may allow the user to specify custom URL
  for the page generated by the content. Some templates may also use this to
  determine the index-page by finding the page where `url = "/"`.
